workflow history propagation docs (#5153)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/developing-applications/building-blocks/workflow/workflow-history-propagation.md

| `workflow.PropagateOwnHistory()` | `OWN_HISTORY` (`HISTORY_PROPAGATION_SCOPE_OWN_HISTORY`) | Caller's own events only, ancestral lineage is dropped | Trust boundary — the caller is willing to vouch for what *it* did but the receiver shouldn't see further upstream |

The helpers (`PropagateLineage` / `PropagateOwnHistory`) are what you pass when scheduling. The scope values (`LINEAGE` / `OWN_HISTORY`) are what `propagatedHistory.Scope()` returns on the receiver — they're the same thing.

`PropagateOwnHistory` is the trust boundary: choosing it tells the runtime to stop forwarding any history the caller itself received. This is the right choice when the receiver is a less-trusted app, a third party, or operates under different compliance rules.

## Setting it up

A parent opts a single `CallActivity` or `CallChildWorkflow` into propagation via the `WithHistoryPropagation` option. Other activity / child calls in the same workflow are unaffected.

> ```go

Reviewer: doesn't this need `tabpane` so we can add more languages later on?

Author: at the time there were no other sdks that had the history propagation supported. I can add that in now that the other sdks support this feature and have examples 👍🏻

Author: done

---
type: docs
title: "Workflow history propagation"
linkTitle: "History propagation"
weight: 2500
description: "Share a parent workflow's execution history with child workflows and activities for chain-of-custody, audit, and AI-agent context"
---

> By default, a child workflow or activity only sees the input it was scheduled with. The parent's execution history — what activities ran, what child workflows it spawned, what events it observed — is invisible. Workflow history propagation lets a parent opt-in to share that history with the work it schedules.

Reviewer 2: I would add a some scenarios into this article as well, in case most likely, that some comes straight to this article from a search (like I suggest in the overview)

> By default, a child workflow or activity only sees the input it was scheduled with. The parent's execution history — what activities ran, what child workflows it spawned, what events it observed — is invisible. Workflow history propagation lets a parent opt-in to share that history with the work it schedules.

Reviewer 2: I would add a some scenarios into this article as well, in case most likely, that some comes straight to this article from a search (like I suggest in the overview)

> By default, a child workflow or activity only sees the input it was scheduled with. The parent's execution history — what activities ran, what child workflows it spawned, what events it observed — is invisible. Workflow history propagation lets a parent opt-in to share that history with the work it schedules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, a child workflow or activity only sees the input it was scheduled with. The parent's execution history — what activities ran, what child workflows it spawned, what events it observed — is invisible. Workflow history propagation lets a parent opt-in to share that history with the workflows it schedules.
```

This is useful for:

- **Chain-of-custody and audit** — a fraud check, compliance gate, or settlement step can verify what already happened upstream rather than trusting the caller's claims.

> - **Cross-app workflows** — a downstream app, often owned by a different team, can confirm an upstream activity ran without an out-of-band query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Cross-app workflows** — a downstream app, often owned by a different application, can confirm an upstream activity ran without an out-of-band query.
```

Author: Im not going to take this one bc it says `a downstream app` already. which is likely owned by a diff team or org, not owned by a diff app if that makes sense.

> - **AI agents and long-running orchestrations** — agents that loop with `ContinueAsNew` or fan out to sub-agents can carry context (tool calls, model outputs, intermediate decisions) forward without re-prompting from scratch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **AI agents and long-running orchestrations** — agents that loop with `ContinueAsNew` or fan out to sub-agents can carry context (tool calls, model outputs, intermediate decisions) forward without re-prompting expensive calls from scratch.
```

## Propagation scopes

Two scopes are exposed. The default is no propagation.

| Option helper | Scope value on `propagatedHistory.Scope()` | What gets sent | When to use it |
| ------------- | --------------------------- | -------------- | -------------- |

> | `workflow.PropagateLineage()` | `LINEAGE` (`HISTORY_PROPAGATION_SCOPE_LINEAGE`) | Caller's own events plus the full ancestor chain inherited from the caller's own parent | Full chain-of-custody, downstream wants to see everything that happened before, all the way to the root |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `workflow.PropagateLineage()` | `LINEAGE` (`HISTORY_PROPAGATION_SCOPE_LINEAGE`) | Caller's own events plus the full ancestor chain inherited from the caller's parent | Full chain-of-custody, downstream wants to see everything that happened before, all the way to the root |
```

> | `workflow.PropagateOwnHistory()` | `OWN_HISTORY` (`HISTORY_PROPAGATION_SCOPE_OWN_HISTORY`) | Caller's own events only, ancestral lineage is dropped | Trust boundary — the caller is willing to vouch for what *it* did but the receiver shouldn't see further upstream |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `workflow.PropagateOwnHistory()` | `OWN_HISTORY` (`HISTORY_PROPAGATION_SCOPE_OWN_HISTORY`) | Caller's own events only, ancestral (parents) lineage is dropped | Trust boundary — the caller is willing to vouch for what *it* did but the receiver shouldn't see further upstream |
```

The helpers (`PropagateLineage` / `PropagateOwnHistory`) are what you pass when scheduling. The scope values (`LINEAGE` / `OWN_HISTORY`) are what `propagatedHistory.Scope()` returns on the receiver — they're the same thing.

`PropagateOwnHistory` is the trust boundary: choosing it tells the runtime to stop forwarding any history the caller itself received. This is the right choice when the receiver is a less-trusted app, a third party, or operates under different compliance rules.

> 

Reviewer 2: Any more guidance we can provide here? For example PropagateOwnHistory only has to be used if you have no child workflows, but this is very unlikely typically. 
Should you typically always use Lineage in 90% of cases?
How can you set this on a Dapr agent  (also an Langgraph agent that has been made durable with workflows)

## Setting it up

> A parent opts a single child workflow or activity into propagation via a per-call option. Other calls in the same workflow are unaffected. The default is no propagation.

Reviewer 2: opts?

Author: yes, I can change it if preferred:
```
"Opts" is the third-person singular present tense of the verb "opt," which means to make a choice or decision from a range of possibilities. It is a direct synonym for words like chooses, selects, elects, or prefers.Common Usages & PhrasesOpt for: To choose one thing instead of another.Example: "She opts for a latte instead of black coffee."Opt to: To decide to do a specific action.Example: "He opts to take the stairs instead of the elevator."Opt in / Opt out: To agree to participate or sign up (opt-in), or to choose not to participate (opt-out).Example: "He opts out of receiving promotional emails.
```

Reviewer 3: maybe "opts in for..."?

{{< tabpane text=true >}}

{{% tab header="Python" %}}

```python
import dapr.ext.workflow as wf

@wfr.workflow(name='MerchantCheckout')
def merchant_checkout(ctx: wf.DaprWorkflowContext, order_json: str):

>     # Activity does NOT receive propagated history (default).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # The validate_merchant activity does NOT receive propagated history (default).
```

    yield ctx.call_activity(validate_merchant, input=order_json)

>     # Child workflow DOES receive parent's history (LINEAGE).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # The process_payment child workflow DOES receive parent's history (LINEAGE).
```

    result = yield ctx.call_child_workflow(
        process_payment,
        input=order_json,
        propagation=wf.PropagationScope.LINEAGE,
    )
    return result
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab header=".NET" %}}

```csharp
using Dapr.Workflow;

public sealed class MerchantCheckoutWorkflow : Workflow<Order, string>
{
    public override async Task<string> RunAsync(WorkflowContext ctx, Order order)
    {

>         // Activity does NOT receive propagated history (default).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // The ValidateMerchantActivity does NOT receive propagated history (default).
```

        await ctx.CallActivityAsync<bool>(nameof(ValidateMerchantActivity), order);

>         // Child workflow DOES receive parent's history (Lineage).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // The ProcessPaymentWorkflow child workflow DOES receive parent's history (Lineage).
```

        return await ctx.CallChildWorkflowAsync<string>(
            nameof(ProcessPaymentWorkflow),
            order,
            new ChildWorkflowTaskOptions(PropagationScope: HistoryPropagationScope.Lineage));
    }
}
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab header="Go" %}}

```go
import (
    "github.com/dapr/durabletask-go/workflow"
)

func MerchantCheckout(ctx *workflow.WorkflowContext) (any, error) {
    // Activity does NOT receive propagated history (default).
    if err := ctx.CallActivity("ValidateMerchant").Await(nil); err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }

    // Child workflow DOES receive parent's history (LINEAGE).
    var result string
    if err := ctx.CallChildWorkflow("ProcessPayment",
        workflow.WithHistoryPropagation(workflow.PropagateLineage()),
    ).Await(&result); err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }
    return result, nil
}
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabpane >}}

> ## Receiving propagated history

Reviewer 2: Is accessing more appropriate a term?

```suggestion
## Accessing propagated history
```

Inside a child workflow or activity, call `GetPropagatedHistory()` (Go / .NET) or `get_propagated_history()` (Python). It returns the propagated history if the caller opted in, or `None` / `nil` if it didn't.

> The example below assumes the parent shown above registered as `MerchantCheckout` with an activity `ValidateMerchant` and a child workflow `FraudDetection` (called with `Lineage`).

Reviewer 2: To keep it consistent with the example above, can we use `ProcessPayment` workflow, otherwise it gets confusing. Or can you change the code example above to `FraudDetection` 

 ```suggestion
The example below assumes the parent workflow shown above is registered as `MerchantCheckout` with an activity `ValidateMerchant` and a child workflow `ProcessPayment` (called with `Lineage`).
```

{{< tabpane text=true >}}

{{% tab header="Python" %}}

```python
import dapr.ext.workflow as wf

@wfr.workflow(name='FraudDetection')
def fraud_detection(ctx: wf.DaprWorkflowContext, order_json: str):

>     history = ctx.get_propagated_history()

Reviewer 2: Presumably this line will only return history for ValidateMerchant and not ProcessPayment child workflow. Maybe worth saying that

    if history is None:
        return 'no upstream history'

>     if not ctx.is_replaying:

Reviewer 2: What does this is_replaying do? It would be nice to have a comment here and why this matters.

        print(f'scope={history.scope}, workflows={[w.name for w in history.get_workflows()]}')

    try:
        merchant_wf = history.get_workflow_by_name('MerchantCheckout')
        validation = merchant_wf.get_activity_by_name('ValidateMerchant')
    except wf.PropagationNotFoundError as exc:
        return f'missing required upstream step: {exc}'

    if not validation.completed:
        return 'merchant validation did not complete, rejecting'
    return 'approved'
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab header=".NET" %}}

```csharp
using Dapr.Workflow;

public sealed class FraudDetectionWorkflow : Workflow<Order, string>
{
    public override Task<string> RunAsync(WorkflowContext ctx, Order order)
    {
        var history = ctx.GetPropagatedHistory();
        if (history is null)
            return Task.FromResult("no upstream history");

>         if (!ctx.IsReplaying)

Reviewer 2: same comment here as above

            Console.WriteLine($"received {history.Entries.Count} workflow segment(s)");

        // Verify MerchantCheckout is present in the ancestor chain.

>         var merchant = history.FilterByWorkflowName(nameof(MerchantCheckoutWorkflow));

Reviewer 2: Any reason this is not history.GetByWorkflowName for API consistency? Why Filter and not Get? Can you ask Whit?

Author: yeah not sure, that is not consistent with the other sdks. Will ask in discord.

    }
}
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab header="Go" %}}

```go
import (
    "fmt"

    "github.com/dapr/durabletask-go/workflow"
)

func FraudDetection(ctx *workflow.WorkflowContext) (any, error) {
    propagatedHistory := ctx.GetPropagatedHistory()
    if propagatedHistory == nil {
        return "no upstream history", nil
    }

    // The history exposes both raw events and per-app/per-instance chunks.
    fmt.Printf("scope: %s, %d events from apps %v\n",
        propagatedHistory.Scope(), len(propagatedHistory.Events()), propagatedHistory.GetAppIDs())

    // Drill into a specific upstream workflow's activities.
    merchantWf, err := propagatedHistory.GetWorkflowByName("MerchantCheckout")
    if err != nil {
        return nil, fmt.Errorf("expected MerchantCheckout in propagated history: %w", err)
    }
    validation, err := merchantWf.GetActivityByName("ValidateMerchant")
    if err != nil {
        return nil, fmt.Errorf("expected ValidateMerchant in propagated history: %w", err)
    }
    if !validation.Completed {
        return "merchant validation didn't complete, rejecting", nil
    }
    return "approved", nil
}
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabpane >}}

> Whatever the language, the returned propagated-history object exposes the same conceptual shape:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For all SDKs the returned `propagated-history`object exposes the same properties:
```

> - **Events** — the flat list of upstream history events in order

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Events** — A list of upstream history events in order
```

> For all SDKs the returned `propagated-history`object exposes the same properties:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For all SDKs the returned `propagated-history` object exposes the same properties:
```

> - **Scope** — which scope the parent chose (`OWN_HISTORY` or `LINEAGE`)

Reviewer 2: Is this not PropagationScope to be accurate?

```suggestion
- **PropagationScope** — The propagation scope the parent chose (`OWN_HISTORY` or `LINEAGE`)
```

Author: its called Scope from the propagatedHistory var like below:
```
ph := ctx.GetPropagatedHistory()
		if ph == nil {
			...
		}
		if ph.Scope() == protos.HistoryPropagationScope_HISTORY_PROPAGATION_SCOPE_LINEAGE {
			...
		}
```

> - **Per-workflow entries** — one entry per ancestor workflow, each tagged with that workflow's app ID, name, instance ID, and the index range of events it covers

Reviewer 2: what is the actual property name here and is this also a structured type?

- **App IDs** — deduplicated list of every app that contributed events to the chain
- **Filters** — convenience accessors to find an entry by workflow name, or events by app / instance / workflow name. Drilling into an entry lets you look up the specific activities or child workflows the upstream workflow ran

> Exact method names differ by SDK (`GetWorkflowByName` in Go and .NET, `get_workflow_by_name` in Python; `WorkflowResult` vs `Entries`; etc.) — see the per-SDK docs for the precise surface.

Reviewer 2: tell me this is minimal though and only language semantic differences. The entries one confuses me given that this is the first time that word has been used. What are entries and why is this different?
Are there links to the SDKs to help find out more easily without having to search?

> ## Cross-app workflows

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## History propagation in multi-app workflows
```

> When a parent workflow in App A calls a child workflow in App B, the propagated chunks travel between sidecars. Two security knobs apply:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a parent workflow in App A calls a child workflow in App B using multi-app workflow calling, the propagated contexts travels between applications. In this usage there are two security settings:
```

> - **mTLS** — when Dapr is deployed with mTLS (the default for Helm / `dapr init -k`), inter-sidecar traffic is encrypted and authenticated.

Reviewer 2: What does mTLS have to do with propagation? The statement below just say communication is encrypted.

Reviewer 3: would remove this

> - **`WorkflowHistorySigning`** — an opt-in `Configuration` feature that signs each propagated chunk with the producing app's SPIFFE identity. Receivers can verify chunks weren't tampered with after they left the producer.

Reviewer 2: Make this its own heading and then reference the article in this PR
https://github.com/dapr/docs/pull/5082
`
``suggestion
## Workflow history signing. 
With history signing, the propagated context can be cryptographically verified. For more information see [workflow history signing]({{% ref "workflow-history-signing.md" %}}  
```

If `WorkflowHistorySigning` is not enabled, daprd logs a warning per dispatch:

> > `propagating unsigned workflow history to child workflow '...' (signing is not configured; chunks cannot be cryptographically verified by the receiver)`

Reviewer 2: I think chucks is a strange implementation like words to use. Can it just be context like this?
```suggestion
> `propagating unsigned workflow history to child workflow '...' (signing is not configured; context cannot be cryptographically verified by the receiver)`
```

{{% alert title="Treat unsigned chunks as untrusted" color="warning" %}}

> Without signing, propagated chunks are functional but not cryptographically verifiable. Don't treat unsigned propagated history as authoritative for high-value decisions (payments, approvals). Enable `WorkflowHistorySigning` for production deployments that depend on chain-of-custody.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Without signing, propagated context is functional but not cryptographically verifiable. Don't treat unsigned propagated history as authoritative for high-value decisions (payments, approvals). Enable `WorkflowHistorySigning` for production deployments that depend on chain-of-custody.
```

{{% /alert %}}

## ContinueAsNew and rerun

> Propagated history flows correctly through both `ContinueAsNew` and rerun:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Propagated history is correctly maintained with both `ContinueAsNew` and `Rerun` workflow operations. 
```

> - A workflow that received propagated history and calls `ContinueAsNew` passes the same incoming chunks to its next generation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A workflow that received propagated history and calls `ContinueAsNew` passes the same incoming context to its next generation.
```

> - Rerunning a workflow re-issues activity / child-workflow calls with the same propagation scope they were originally scheduled with — `LINEAGE` stays `LINEAGE`, `OWN_HISTORY` stays `OWN_HISTORY`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Re-running a workflow re-issues activity / child-workflow calls with the same propagation scope they were originally scheduled with — `LINEAGE` stays `LINEAGE`, `OWN_HISTORY` stays `OWN_HISTORY`.
```

This makes long-running agents and crash-recovery scenarios behave the way you'd expect: the receiving generation/rerun sees the same history the original run did.

## Next steps

> 

Reviewer 2: Discover [how to apply workflow signing]({{% ref "workflow-history-signing.md" %}} to attest the validity of a previous workflow or activity step.

> {{< button text="Workflow patterns >>" page="workflow-patterns.md" >}}

Reviewer 3: Should we add a note on payload size  and limits here? I imagine that when workflow history prop is enabled the payloads increase a bit? Maybe call that out and that the default size is 4mb etc...

Author: good call. done
